[MUSIC] We have just seen that the approximation
of quasistatic  aeroelasticity where the fluid and solid respective dynamics
are well separated in time scales, allows building very simple models for
instabilities due to  the flow for instance the torsion divergence of an airfoil, of a
bridge can be reasonably modeled by this. But there are some flow induced
instabilities that behave quite differently as an oscillation of growing amplitude
not just an increase in displacement. And the simple model we used only
led to the possibility of increasing displacement by buckling. Let us build now a more
sophisticated model. [MUSIC] By looking at the movie
of flutter of  a wing for instance the motion seems
to be on more than one mode. In other terms it is not just a shape
in space times a function of time. It seems more complex with
a lot of bending of the wing, but at the same time some torsion. [MUSIC] Let us therefore base our new model
on a richer approximation of the kinematics of a solid using a two
modes approximation for the motion. By this I mean that the displacement  Ksi
is the sum of the contribution of one mode q1Phi1, and as a second mode  q2Phi2. This  two modes kinematics
may be of several kinds. For instance it may be a combination of
a  rigid body motions in two directions. Mode one is the translation along X, mode two along Y, and the combination
gives you any position in space. We may also imagine the combination of
translation and rotation as here, or an even more complex case with the two
modes of bending of a beam like this. To compute the dynamics of the solid
we have to solve the modal equations of motions here with the fluid loading on each mode. This is identical to what we just did
on  one mode except that we have two modes and because we have two modes
we have different model masses and stiffness, and the same fluid loading
was to be projected on the two modes. We have enriched the model of
the kinematics of the solid, but in terms of time scales
we keep the approximation that these motions are much
slower than that of the fluid. We are still in quasistatic aeroelasticity. [MUSIC] The general framework I used previously
was the following for one mode. The pressure and velocity fields in
the fluid depended only on the variable q, and therefore the fluid force
also only dependent on q. We could then expand the field
force in terms of q and obtain a flow-induced stiffness force. Now, if we have two modes,
then the steady state fluid mechanics problems depends on
the instantenous values of both q1 and q2. The resulting fluid loading needs
to be projected on the  two modes. The two modal forces will
both depend on q1 and q2 and , as in the previous case
they are proportional to the Cauchy number. Let us now expand each of them in
terms of the small quantity D, the amplitude of displacements,
which is assumed to be small. The first term is the permanent loading. As before we are only
interested in the load that depends on the motion of the solid,
and more particularly the first coefficients
of the expansion,  these two terms. Let us define k sub ij the partial
derivatives of the modal forces with respect to each modal variable. The modal equations now
take this simple form keeping only the q1 and
q2 dependent terms. We now have a set of two equations that are coupled by flow
induced stiffness term. [MUSIC] These terms vary with the fluis
velocity through the Cauchy number. Note that the diagonal terms of
the matrix correspond to the  previous analysis where fluid forces resulted
in a modified stiffness of a mode, but what is new here is that
we have off-diagonal terms and these induce a coupling
between the two modes. Now, what happens for the dynamics of a system when we couple
modes with such stiffness terms? In general we'll have to
recompute new modes of the system. This can be done of course and
we will do it, but let us try and
anticipate what the result will be. Consider first the effect of
the diagonal terms I just mentioned. Each of the two modes will see its
frequency change when the Cauchy  is varied as discussed previously. So schematically depending on the values
of flow induced stiffness K11 and K22 these two frequencies
may part form each other or may come closer and
closer as you can see here. In that case we may have something called a coincidence of frequencies
of the two modes. Another question becomes : what happens
when two modes of a system come to the same frequencies and at the same
time are coupled by stiffness terms? [MUSIC] There is a simple way to
predict what happens for this dynamical system at coincidence. Here I moved on the left hand side
of the equation the diagonal terms. As the frequencies are now equal
it'll have the two modal equations identical and  scaled at a frequency of 1. Now there remains only
the coupling forces. For the sake of simplicity let us assume
that the coupling stiffness is very small in comparison to
the stiffness of the modes. All the results can now  be obtained by
considering first the symmetric case  when the stiffness are equal, and then
the antisymmetric case where the opposite. Symmetric coupling first. We look for the modes of this coupled
system in the form of the real part of q1, q2 naught e to the i of omega t. By inserting this in the modal equations
the frequency then needs to satisfy this condition which implies that
the determinant is equal to 0. There are two solutions to this, and  because
epsilon is small we have simple solutions. Omega equal 1 plus or
minus epsilon  over  2. [MUSIC] The two mode of the systems, which I
call A and B have real frequencies and the eigenvectors are combinations
of the original modes one and two and they are also real. This is just weak coupling that makes
the system slightly different with a slight difference of frequencies between
motions along the two eigenvectors. Now the case of antisymmetric coupling. Let us do exactly the same derivation,
but for antisymmetric coupling. I also look at the frequencies. I have a determinant equal to 0,
but the big difference is that now the two frequencies  read omega equal
1 plus or minus i epsilon over 2. The frequencies have an imaginary part. [MUSIC] So the two modes of this systems are
the following with complex frequencies. Even the eigenvectors have
an imaginary part as you can see here. What does this mean? Let us start with
the first of the two modes. We need to go back to
the values of q 1 of t and q 2 of t, which are the real
part of the eigenvector times the exponential to the i times
the modal frequency times t. Because both the eigenvectors and
the frequency are complex quantities we obtain q1 and
q2 that oscillate as cosine and sine of t and
that decrease exponentially in time. This is a very different
case from the previous one. If I start with an arbitrary condition
along the mode,  the amplitude of q1 and q2 decrease with time. In the q1 q2 plane we have a decreasing spiral. Let us call this the damped mode. Now, the second mode. We obtain q1 and q2,  that also oscillate as cosine and minus sin of t, but
now they increase exponential in time. This is an unstable mode in the q1
q2 plane. If we start with an initial condition on this mode we shall
have a spiral growing in time. These modes correspond to what we
shall call  a dynamic instability. Dynamic instability as opposed
to static instability because there is here an exponential
growth and oscillation. In the static instability there was
only exponential growth no oscillation. So, to summarize here is what we learned
with the simple case of weak coupling. When the coupling is symmetric
we have two neutral modes, but when it is antisymmetric we have a damped
mode and most important an unstable mode. Why do we have a stable and an unstable
mode when the coupling is anti symmetric? In the case of symmetric coupling there
is a potential phi equal to epsilon q1 q2 such that the right hand side
of the equation reads dphi over a dq1 and dphi over dq2 respectively. This is called a conservative forcing. Any cycle in the q1 q2 plane
is going to produce a net zero energy transfer in the modes. Conversely for the antisymmetric
coupling there is no potential. This is a nonconservative forcing with
energy input or output at each cycle. [MUSIC] Let us go back to our original case. Is the coupling symmetric,
or antisymmetric ? In general it is neither of them
because the coefficients are CyK12 and CyK21, and
remember that KIJ tells the dependence of the projected fluid  force on mode
i to the displacement of mode j. There is absolutely no reason
that they be equal or opposite, but if the coupling is not exactly
symmetric it contains a nonzero antisymmetric part and
is therefore nonconservative. So, as soon as they are not equal
the system is nonconservative, and there will be an unstable mode. Now what can be computed even for
nonsmall coupling, and you can expect to have an unstable
mode and another mode. We shall have simple example of this. [MUSIC] So, to summarize. If we have a two mode
approximation of  the dynamics, the modal equations are coupled by flow
induced stiffness terms. There is a risk of a dynamic
instability when the coupling matrix is such that,  as the Cauchy  numbers increased, there is a coincidental frequency, and
when the coupling is not symmetric. This flow induced instability
is often called coupled mode  flutter. But coupling is not sufficient, we need coincidence and
nonsymmetric coupling. This is an important result. The approximation of quasistatic
aeroelasticity allows to predict not only static instabilities, buckling,
but also dynamic instabilities. Is this applicable to
the oscillating instability of a wing? This is what we shall do next. [MUSIC]