[MUSIC] So, we are exploring the framework
of the approximation of pseudo-static aeroelasticity. We showed that taking into account the
velocity of the solid at the interface led to flow induced damping forces. This damping could be negative and
instability could result. We have illustrated this on the case
of stall  flutter of an airfoil, but the framework is actually quite general. Let us now see what would happen for a body with arbitrary shape
moving in a rather slow flow. I will consider here the simple
cases of a rigid body moving in the direction of the flow or
across the flow. Let us start by moving in the direction of
the flow, and to make things even simpler, let us have a cylinder of diameter
L moving with the velocity x dot. If we have a flow velocity that
satisfies our condition for the pseudo static aeroelastic approximation the velocity, X dot maybe considered
as frozen which means time independent. So, we have a cylinder
moving with the velocity x dot in the same direction
as a flow velocity U. This is equivalent to
considering a fixed cylinder with a flow velocity V
equals to U minus X dot. This is now quite simple
What is the force resulting from a flow of magnitude
V on a fixed cylinder? It reads F(V) = one half of rhoV2 LCd (Re) where Cd is the drag coefficient that depends on a Reynolds number
which is here, rho VL / mu. Here is a typical plot of the evolution of
the drag coefficient on a cylinder with the Reynolds number. It first decreases and
then reaches a kind of plateau, except in a small region before
Reynolds of 10 to the 6. So, as we have done before,
we may expand the force F considering that the velocity of the
cylinder is small versus that of the flow. We have a first term corresponding to the
drag when the cylinder is not moving, but we are interested in the next
term which takes into the account the velocity of the cylinder. It reads, X dot dF over dX dot and this
is the damping force that we expecting. What is the sign of
the damping coefficient? We have to go back to the model of
the drag force where the velocity, V, is actually dependent here on X dot. This is a straightforward derivation,
which gives finally the coefficient dF over dX dot,
proportional to the velocity U, and to a factor which depends
on the drag coefficient only. [MUSIC] What is the sign of this
damping coefficient? It only depends on the sign of the term
related to the drag coefficient. If this quantity is positive, then the force will have a damping
effect on any motion of the cylinder. Conversely, if it is negative,
then any motion would be amplified, and we shall have a dynamic
instability called drag galloping. In practice can we have a negative
damping coefficient? We know that the drag
coefficient is positive but it decreases with Reynolds  number so that
the second term in the bracket is negative. How is the sum of the two? Well, it is negative but only in a very small Reynolds number near one million where there is a sudden drop
of the drag coefficient. This drop corresponds to what
is called drag crisis and in that region  the sum of
the two terms is negative. We have then what is called
a drag instability of the cylinder which is going to oscillate
in the direction of the flow. The mechanisms of the drag crisis
instability is easy to understand. When the cylinder moves in
the downstream direction, the apparent  flow velocity decreases. In the drag crisis region it happens that
the drag then increases. Conversely, when going in the upstream direction
the apparent  velocity increases causing the drag crisis,
and the drag drops. As a result, the trend of drag is always
in the direction of the velocity and the power of the fluid force over
the cycle will be positive. This will cause a flow induced dynamic instability. Actually, this instability
may occur on any bluff body oscillating in the direction of
a flow provided there is a drag crisis. What is drag crisis? It is a sudden change in the flow pattern, particularly in the organization
of the boundary layer near the solid wall. This only happen if the body has
smooth walls, not with corners. Here's the form of the evolution
of drag coefficient of several shapes. The rounded shapes in red may be unstable because there is a sudden
decrease in the drag coefficient. The shapes with sharp edges in green,
here the square, and the triangle, will be stable. [MUSIC] Well, using this same idea,
let us see what happens if a body of arbitrary shape moves
transversely to the flow. Let theta naught be the angle that defines its angular opposition
relatively to the flow. If again the velocity y dot is frozen
in time we have only to consider a fixed body with a relative velocity of V
which is a combination of U and Y dot. This is equivalent to considering a change
in the incidence of the flow which becomes theta nought plus alpha where alpha depends on
the ratio between y dot and U. The lift  force acting in that
configuration is as for the airfoil, defined by the lift coefficient CL, which depends on the angle
of incidence of the flow. As this angle is dependant
on the velocity y dot again, we obtain a flow induced damping. And the coefficient depends on the variation   of the  lift
coefficient with the angle of incidence. At this stage we are exactly
at the same point than when we developed the force  for an airfoil in plunge. We found a condition of stall flutter directly dependent on the slope of lift coefficient dCL/dtheta. [MUSIC] But the difference here is that we do
not have a streamlined body as for the  airfoil. This means that the evolution of
the  lift coefficient with respect to the angle of  the incidence can take any form. The only thing we may say
is that it is periodic in theta naught  and if  it is periodic in theta naught ,
there is certainly going to be a region where the slope  is positive, and
a region where the slope  is negative. So there will always be a range of
orientation of the body with respect to the flow, such that motion in
the lit direction will be negatively damped. This is much more general
than the conditional of stall. We shall call this lift galloping,
which occurs as soon as the lift coefficient has a decreasing
slope with the angle-of-attack. For instance, here is the case of a square
section. Because of the symmetries, we only need to plot the lift
coefficient between 0 and pi over 2. By just looking at the shape of the curve,
we see that we may expect lift galloping for small angles and
near the diamond position. Actually, as a general feature it is
observed  that only when bodies are elongated in the cross-flow direction, the lift
coefficient has  a negative slope first. Schematically, for a rectangle aligned
with the flow, the lift motion is damped. For a rectangle transversed to
the flow the lift motion is unstable. Look at the movie; what you see here
is kind of poster suspended in a shop. It is placed closed to the shop entrance
where you have a continuous air current. Because the pendulum motion is very
slightly damped, the flow induced forces result in an instability with
a very large amplitude of motion. To summarize,
we have found that the dynamic instability may occur when a bluff  body
is free to move in a flow. When flow induced forces are considered
to depend on the velocity of the body, we have a flow induced damping
force that destabilize the motion. This is often referred to as galloping, although this term describes
more the motion than the cause. Our two cases  illustrated here,
drag galloping of a cylinder and lift galloping of a rectangle
are  the simplest cases. More generally,
you can imagine that the  bluff body that moves in a direction that is inclined to
the flow, will combine these effects. Moreover, one may take into account
the simultaneous changes of lift and drag forces that
occur when the solid moves. There are rather elaborate models  for
this, but the elementary mechanisms are those we just saw. In practice, you will find these
issues of galloping in many systems. For instance,
in transmission lines ice may aggregate and transform the cylindrical section into
a shape elongated across the flow. Also in offshore engineering,
the current may come across what is called riser towers  which
are arrangements of connected pipes. These systems  may have non-zero lift under some incident angles, and
this galloping may occur. Galloping also occurs in systems moving in
much more complex motions such as gates in dams. Tainter gates were found
to vibrate under flow and this can be analyzed by using our models. Finally, bridges. There are a lot of galloping
issues in bridges and some of them require the use of models
more complex than what we studied here. In particular, the famous Tacoma Narrows
Bridge failure is not an easy case. Let us just say here that it falls in the
category of coupling with the flow, slow flow, where you have to take into account
the local velocity of the bridge deck. More generally, models exist that
allow to  take into account not only the displacements but
also the rotation of sections in the flow. Let us conclude our chapter
on coupling with a slow flow. By slow flow we meant that
its velocity is not so large that the solid
velocity can be neglected. In that case we could define an assumption
of pseudo-static aeroelascity, which predicts that a flow induced damping
force is going to apply on the solid, and that the damping force maybe
stabilizing or destabilizing. When it is destabilizing we have a dynamic
instability  that builds up on a single mode. No coupling of modes needed. We have illustrated this on stall  flutters of airfoils  drag galloping and lift galloping. [MUSIC] At this stage of the course, we have
models for interaction with fast flows, very high reduce velocities, and for slow
flows, intermediate reduce velocities. We also have models for very slow flows
when the  fluid velocity is negligible. Can we cover the whole axis of reduced
velocities and connect all these models? We shall try and
do this in the next chapter and show that we can give
a consistent picture. [MUSIC]