[MUSIC] Using our single mode approximation of
the fluid-conveying pipe, we have obtained some models of the fluid structure  interaction
in different ranges of velocities. As I said before,it is a bit
frustrating to have patches of models. Actually, for this particular
system we can say much more. To derive the torque
exerted by the flow on the pendulum, I used the Angular Momentum Theorem. In the torque, the first term was
the time dependence of the total fluid angular momentum, and because I was under
the approximation of a pseudo static aeroelasicity, the angular velocity was frozen in
time, and so this term was equal to zero. If now the velocity is time dependent,
which is the general case, then this term reads  simply
d/dT of M/3 theta dot, which is M/3, theta double dot. I now have the most general form of
the torque exerted by the solid on the fluid, which reads M/3 theta
double dot + MUR theta dot. If I include this in the equation
of the fluid pendulum I recover added mass and
added damping at the same time. One plus M/3, Theta double dot plus MUR
Theta single dot plus Theta equals zero. And this is valid for
all  reduced velocities UR. Actually, I have simultaneously
added mass and added damping. This means that added mass
exists at all reduced velocities, not only at very small ones. And that added damping exists
at all reduced velocities not only at intermediate ones. Yes, schematically, here's what happens. At all reduced velocity,
I have added mass. Added Coriolis damping always exists,
but becomes larger and larger as the reduced
velocity is increased. Eventually, it becomes
the dominant effect. This gives some deeper meaning
to our patches of models. For our  fluid conveying pendulum, the
simple models of each range of velocity were right, but they could not give
us more than the dominant effect. The full model combines all this :  Effects add up. [MUSIC] The fluid
solid interactions effects do not just add up like this in the most general case,
but what is true that they do not
replace one by the other. You remember that at low reduced velocity, all effects were independent
of the reduced velocity. That in pseudo static aeroelasticity,
the fluid induced damping effects that gave us galloping were proportional
to the reduced velocity UR. And that in quasi static aeroelasticiy , the fluid induced stiffness effect that gave us divergence or
flutter were proportional to the Cauchy number that varies like the square
of the reduced velocity. So, the general feature is more like this. Depending on the range of reduced
velocity, each type of effect dominates. At low reduced velocities, added mass, at intermediate velocities
flow-induced damping and at higher reduced velocities,
flow-induced stiffness. When we build up the classical
models of added mass, fluid damping and so on we went to limit cases so
that we could neglect some terms in comparison to others and
focus on the dominant effect. But we can say now that the root causes
of all the mechanisms we have found are always there but that depending
on the range of reduced velocity, one or the other dominates. [MUSIC] Let us go back to our
fluid-conveying pipe instability. We have found that the fluid
conveying pendulum, the single mode approximation was enough
to give us the added mass and the  fluid induced Coriolis  damping, but
that does not explain the famous  garden horse instability. In the fluid
conveying pendulum, the higher the fluid velocity,
the higher the damping. The effect is only stabilizing. We have to enrich the model somehow. And this is not a question of too much
simplification in the description of the interaction, because we have solved
the model for any flow velocity. The only direction of improvement is
to have a better approximation of the dynamics of the pipe. Look at this motion here and here. This does not look like
a single mode oscillating. It seems a combination of two modes. Let us go in that direction. [MUSIC]