[MUSIC] So, we have found plenty
of simple models for the coupling between a moving solid and
a still fluid, as soon as the reduced
velocity is small enough and the amplitude of the motion is also small. We showed that the force acting
on the solid was made of an added stiffness part and depending on
the value of the Stokes  number, an added mass or an added damping  part. These two extreme cases, added mass and
added damping were obtained when the effect of  viscosity was  negligible
 or conversely dominant. The question now is of course what
happens for intermediate Stokes number? The approach we used was based on the
analysis of the momentum balance equation. You remember that using the approximation
of either very small, or very large Stokes number, we could drop some of the terms
in the momentum balance equation. Then we could derive the added mass and
the added damping by using a very simple argument;  As  the solid velocity at the boundary was given
by  a simple approximation we built a single mode approximation for
the velocity in the whole fluid  domain. That  allowed to cancel out all time dependence
in the equations, and eventually to arrive at a force proportional to q dot,
or q double dot. Can we use the same argument for
any value of the Stokes number? Let us see.
Unfortunately, no, we cannot. Why? Because in the momentum balance equation, we must keep the two terms
involving the velocity, the inertial term and the viscous
term. None of them can be neglected. So, any form of the velocity in the form
of a function of space and function of time is going to mix in that equation the
function of time and its time derivative. What does that mean in terms of physics? It means that there is a time scale inside
the equations for the fluid domain. When you have an equation like
dy / dt + 1 / Tau x Y = 0, you know that the solution
is  Y = e to the -t /Tau. The dynamics of y then
includes the time scale tau. It is similar here,
we have du over dt on one side, and one over  Stokes delta u on the other side. If there is a time scale in the fluid dynamics there is
no way that the  fluid response can be instantaneous. We had instantaneous response for
low and high Stokes number, because we have instantaneous
viscous diffusion and instantaneous inertial response respectively. In between, there is competition
between these two effects. So what does the force look like? Oh, no not him. [MUSIC] To try and answer this, let us consider the idealized problem
of what is called the impulse response. Imagine that the motion of
the solid is an impulsive start. Zero velocity then unit velocity, constant,
the Heaviside side step function H of t. This is going to cause some  fluid  motion of velocity U_I and
the pressure P_I, I as impulse. By integrating at the interface,  these velocities and pressure will give me the force acting on the solid  the soluble which I called f_l. I don't know how this force evolves
in time but certainly it does. As this is a response of the system to
an impulse displacement of the solid I call it the impulse force. Imagine now any arbitrary motion
of the solid defined by q dot of t as sketched here. I can write this q  dot
as the sum of successive impulses of  magnitude q double  dot times
the Heaviside  step function. Because all the equations governing
the dynamics of the  fluid are linear, the response of the fluid and
as a consequence, the force, is going to be the sum of
successive impulse responses to the change of velocities the acceleration. This takes the form of a convolution
product between the acceleration of the solid, and the impulse force. [MUSIC] Schematically, here is what happens. At the time t, the force exerted
by the fluid on a solid, f(t), results from all fluid motion started earlier as a consequence of previous changes in
velocity of the solid. The force f of t keeps
the memory of the past. Why? Because the impulse response
was not instantaneous, the fluid having its own time scale. To summarize,
any motion of the solid is going to start a progressive diffusion of
momentum in the fluid, and progressively the feedback force
will take this into account. What is going to happen? Imagine a motion defined by
the velocity q dot sketched here. At low Stokes number, the force will have the same
shape being proportional to q dot. When the motion stops, the force stops. Conversionly at  very high Stokes number,
the force is proportional to acceleration but it will also stop when the motion stops. In between,
because of the delay in the response, the force will continue to exist even
after the solid has stopped its motion. This is a new very important result. Between these cases of added damping and
added mass, the  fluid feedback force will
depend on the history of loading Not an added damping  or added mass, but
something like an added internal clock. [MUSIC] Actually, we can have exact solutions for all these when the geometry
is simple enough. Imagine an infinite plate
bounded on one side. by a semi-infinite fluid domain, the plate moves along the x axis only,
tangentially to the fluid. In that case, the problem is independent of x, and
the velocity only depends on y and t. The pressure is uniform and
the velocity satisfies simply Du over dt equals 1 over Stokes,
d square u over d y squared. This is a very classical formula
of diffusion in one direction that you'll find in all
domains of physics. The impulse response corresponding to
q dot equals H of t  is well known. It takes a self-similar form based on what is called the error function that I recall here.
This means that the velocity in
the fluid adapts as follows. At an early stage of the motion, only the fluid very close to
the plate is entrained. As time goes, thanks to the viscous
forces, more and more fluid  is entrained. This is a classical diffusion
of momentum by viscosity. The corresponding force, the impulse force, is a consequence of
the viscous shear at the interface. Per unit area of  the plate it
can be computed using the general formula,
which simplifies a lot here, and we have the impulse force equals to minus
M over square root of Pi  Stokes t. This means that an impulse
start of the plate results in a feedback force  that starts at
infinite and decreases progressively. I could expect that. A very strong feedback as I try to shear the fluid at rest. Then as the fluid layers progressively
start moving less and less force needed. As a consequence, the force,
in the general case, reads as the convolution between the acceleration
and that force decreasing in time. As you can see, the larger the Stokes
number, the shorter the memory. To summarize, the effect of viscosity
is all in the Stokes number. If the stokes number is very large,
neglect viscosity and consider only added mass. If it is very small, neglect inertia and
consider just added damping . In between,
the competition between inertia and viscous diffusion will result in a memory
effect that will give you a force depending on the history of
motion of the solid. In practice, if you consider vibrations
of a solid in a still fluid, here is what will happen. At large Stokes number the fluid force will be
in phase with the acceleration, at small with the velocity, and
in between the  phase will be in between. Actually, by measuring the phase
between the displacements and the force we can estimate the Stokes
number and there by the fluid viscosity. This a technique used in food engineering,
for instance, to measure the state
of cooking of cheese. As you could see, a lot could be said
in the field of coupling  a small motion of solid 
with a still fluid. We have obtained added stiffness, added mass, 
added damping and even memory effects For a given case the equations
to solve are rather simple. This means that a lot of solutions
are available in books and papers for geometries of interest. But the most
important is, as always, to understand what is behind all this using
the appropriate dimensional numbers. Actually, there are other
cases where the dynamics of the fluid is governed by an internal time scale. One very important in
practice is that of sloshing. Next, you will learn how
to take that into account. [MUSIC]