[MUSIC] Hello, we are presently considering
small motions of a solid in a fluid, in the particular case where the main
fluid velocity can be neglected. I  have illustrated that by the oscillation
of a boat on a lake or by the vibrations of an inflatable dam. These two conditions as you know, correspond to a specific region of
the space of our dimensionless parameters. Small motions mean that the displacement
number is much more than one. And negligible fluid velocity means that the
reduced velocity is much smaller than D. Moreover, we have considered description of the motion of solid by a single mode. In this framework,
the equations are much simplified. Here they are. On the fluid side, the solid side,
and at the interface. They  just relate the motion of
the solid governed by q of t, and the corresponding motion in the fluid
where we have the velocity small u and the pressure small p. Note as I'm now using
the simple notation dot for the time  derivation when
a variable only depends on time. So q dot means dq over dt. We have shown that the fluid force acting
on the solid consists of two terms. The second one is actually
a simple stiffness force. Which depends only on the static
pressure gradient in the fluid. And we computed this stiffness in
the case of an ice cube or an iceberg. That was easy. Let us now explore the first
term of our fluid force. What is it made of? It is a sum over the interface of the
force resulting from the pressure p and the velocity u in the fluid. You can recognize the pressure loading and
the viscous shear loading. So schematically,
this term corresponds to the effect on the solid of the motion induced in the
fluid, by the motion of the solid itself. It is a feedback term which
depends on how the fluid reacts to the motion of the interface. To compute this force, of course we need
now to compute the motion of the fluid. This was not the case for
the stiffness terms we analyzed before. I recall here the equations that we
have to solve in the fluid domain. We have the mass balance,
and the momentum balance. At the interface we have the kinematic
condition on the velocity. And the dynamic condition which
is going to give me the force. For the sake of clarity, I have removed the stiffness term
because I know how to compute it. These equations in the fluid
domains are simple because I've considered only
small motions, and everything is linearized. But there is a dimensions parameter
which appears explicitly here and there, the Stokes number. What is it? You remember that we introduced
the Stokes number in our new series of dimensionless parameters. It scaled the viscous effects. Actually, it is equivalent to the Reynolds
number but not based on the mean velocity, which is neglected here, but
based on the velocity of the solid. This is why it appears in the equations, to bring the effect of viscosity in the
momentum equation and in the fluid force. What is the value of the Stokes number? [MUSIC] The Stokes number depends
on the fluid viscosity, mu, the fluid density, rho,
the length scale of the problem, L, and the velocity of elastic waves, c. Or equivalently remember a velocity
defined by L over T solid. Imagine the case of oscillations
of the small boat that I used before. We have L equals about one meter. Mu/Rho for water = 10 to the 6
meters squared per second. And the order of magnitude of the period
of the oscillations is say a second. This would give me a Stokes
number of 10 to the 6. This is a very large dimensionless number. And of course in such a case, the coefficient 1 / Stokes
is going to be very small. And corresponding term in the equation can be neglected. In practice there are many cases where
1 / Stokes is going to be very small. So let us now make the approximation
of high Stokes number in our equations. The equations simplify in several ways. First, in the fluid domain,
the momentum balance equation simplifies to du / dt =-gradient  of p. The viscous term being neglected. Second, in the dynamic condition at the interface,
the effect of viscous shear is neglected. And we only have the sum over interface of
the pressure loading times the boat shape. Finally, the kinematic condition
at the interface must be changed. Why? Because in the absence of viscous effects,
it is just impossible to enforce a condition on the tangential
components of the velocity. The only condition that remains is that
the normal velocities must be equal, meaning that there is no mass transfer or
separation at interface. These equations have solutions
in a very simple form. Note first that at interface
the kinematic condition implies that the normal  fluid velocity
takes the form of a function of time, q dot, times a function of space, Phi n. This comes from the single mode
description of the motion of the solid. We may then look for a fluid velocity
that would have the same form, not only on the interface but
everywhere in the fluid. Of course,
the time dependence would be q dot. The space dependence is unknown and noted  Phi u. The same idea:  because pressure
is related to accelerations, let us look for pressure field p(x,t) as q double dot times
a function of x  say Phi p of x. Then, the mass balance implies
that div of Phi u = 0. In the momentum balance,
the q double dot cancel out. And  we have Phi u
= minus grad of Phi p. At interface, the kinematic
condition is simply Phi u n = Phi n. And in the fluid induced force, because I can take the q double
dot out of integral space, we obtain a very simple form
which I'm going to command now. [MUSIC] What we have here is a major result of
fluid-structure interaction theory. As you can see, the term in
brackets is actually a constant because we have the mass
number times a sum over the interface of quantities
that depend only on space. So in this approximation, the fluid force
resulting from the motion of the solid is an inertia force and the coefficient
of inertia is called the added mass. What is also remarkable is that the response of the fluid to
the motion of the solid is instantaneous. I mean that the force at a given time only depends on the acceleration
at that same moment. So, schematically,
we can say that the problem on the left, where we have a solid moving in  interaction
with a fluid reduced to a very simple problem on the right of the same
solid with just an augmented mass. This is much, much simpler. All we have to do is to
compute a single quantity, this added mass, mA, once and for all. Then, for any motion along this mode,
I know that the coupling with the fluid reduces to adding a mass
effect on the dynamics of the mode. Before going further in this direction, Let us look back at the steps of
simplification that we have done. Originally in the very general case, we had a set of dimensionless numbers that
were the displacement number, the Froude number, the Reynolds number, the  Cauchy number, and the reduced velocity. We then choose an alternative set. That would be more suited to
the case of Rubio's velocity, and that was the displacement number,
the dynamic Froude number, the Stokes number, the mass number,
and the reduced velocity. At this stage, no assumption was made. We then define the domain of low
reduced velocity where the proper velocity of the fluid could be neglected. Then Ur did not appear in
the equations anymore. We then look at the case of
motions of small amplitudes. D much smaller than 1. And D cancelled out
everywhere in the equations. And now by assuming low viscous effects,
the Strokes number disappears. In this framework of approximations,
we have a fluid force that only depends on the dynamic
Froude number and on the mass number. And that force is made of a stiffness
term and then an added mass term. So to summarize, we know that
coupling with a still fluid for small vibrations, and
without viscous effect results in just an increased stiffness and
an increased mass of the vibrating system. We know how to compute
the added stiffness. Let us see next how we can compute
in practice the added mass. [MUSIC]