[MUSIC] Well, at this stage we have
got a lot of simplification. First we have considered the cases where
the velocity of the fluid is very small. And this gave us a condition on
the reduced velocity being smaller than the displacement number. Second we are focused on motions
of small amplitude in the sense that the displacement number
is much smaller than 1. We are in a specific region
of our space of parameters. And there we have a set of equations
that we hope to be able to solve. The key result we obtained was that
the force exerted by the fluid on the solid was made of two terms. The first one was related to the fluid
motion caused by the solid and the second one was not. If this later force does not
depend on the motion of the fluid, you can compute it without
doing any fluid mechanics. Let us do that. So I just look now at this part of
the force acting on the solid and disregard the other one. What do we have here? We have a force, f, that depends
on the modal displacement q. The other ingredients are the mass number,
M, the pressure, P0, the modal shape,
Phi, and, of course, the geometry of interface  through the local
normal and the spatial integration. But we know all of this. In particular the gradient of P0 is given by the momentum balance
at the order 0 that I recall here. It is related to the loading by gravity
which is in the dynamic Froude number  FD. I can substitute the  gradient
of the pressure P0 and I take the dynamic Froude number of the integral. Finally the force takes
a very simple form. It is the product of the displacement,
q, of a ratio of dimensionless numbers and of an integral that mixes
the shape of the motion phi and the geometry of the interface through
the normal, and ds,  the elementary  area. This is a general result and
it seems simple enough. So this force is proportional to
the displacement, it is a stiffness force. The coefficient between them  the stiffness Kf is
a constant  that  I can compute easily. What do I need? The dimensionless number M is
the ratio of the two densities. I know it. The dynamic fluid number is given,
once I know the size L, gravity g, and
when I choose a time scale T solid. And the integral is just a sum
over the interface of a mix of the local modal  shape Phi,
and the local normal. This is pure geometry. So to summarize, from the point of view
of the solid, moving in a fluid with a pressure gradient is strictly equivalent
to being connected to an elastic spring. An important result is that I can compute
the stiffness of this spring once and for all, for a given problem. I do not have to recompute the force
at each position of the solid. [MUSIC] Now let's go to a practical application. Imagine an iceberg, or
even simpler, an ice cube in water. Let us consider the vertical oscillations
and just small oscillations. We assume that the reduced
velocity is small. I want to compute the stiffness force and see how this is going to affect
the motion of my ice cube. The mass number M and
the dynamic fluid number, I can keep them as they are,
and then give their value later when I want to be more specific
on the size of the ice cube. The modal shape Phi is here just the unit vector on the vertical axis
because I'm considering vertical motion. And if L is the size of the ice cube,
I can use it as my reference length. All I have to compute now is the sum
of this quantity over the interface. On the sides of my ice cube the normal
n to the interface is horizontal. So the product Phi n is equal to 0,
the sum is 0. On the bottom of the ice cube,
the normal n is opposed to Phi, and so the product Phi n is -1. I sum the local value of -1 over
the whole bottom of the ice cube of dimensionless size 1, and
I get simply -1 as a result. So the total integral is -1. With the three ingredients, the two dimensionless numbers and
the sum of the interface I have my dimensionless stiffness force as a function
of the parameters of the problem. It opposes the motion of
the ice cube just as a spring. I can use that force on the equation
of motion of the ice cube. Actually, it is the only
force acting on the ice cube. So, the oscillator equation for the
vertical motion of the ice cube is simply here, d square q over d t square
equals minus the stiffness times q. I move my fluid induced stiffness
force on the left hand side, and this looks now exactly like a classical
oscillator with a stiffness and a mass. Now if you remember the time I'm using here is actually t bar, which
I noted t for the sake of simplicity. So the true dimensionless equation
actually starts with d-square q over d-t-bar-square. I can now go back to the dimensional time by substituting t bar which is
t over t solid in the equation. I obtain a simple oscillator equation. Note that the T solid disappears. My solid time T  was rather arbitrary,
so this is fine. From this oscillator equation, I can extract the frequency
of pure oscillation, omega, which depends only on the two densities,
the gravity and the size of the ice cube. This is very much like the frequency of a pendulum with length and
gravity. This is actually a fluid solid pendulum. You can test this equation for an ice cube of one centimeter you get a period
of oscillation of about 0.2 second. Of course, you can arrive at this same result by
directly using Archimedes principle, which is simple to use here, but, in the general case,
our approach here is much, much simpler. How do we go from an ice
cube to an iceberg? We would do exactly the same thing. The  sum over the interface is a bit more complex
to compute because the shape is complex. But the sum always simplifies
whatever the shape and reduces to just the area where
the iceberg crosses the surface of water. Of course, because of the  dimensionless numbers that depend on L, there is going to be a huge difference
in the frequency of oscillation between an ice cube and an iceberg. For a cubic iceberg of 100 meter, the period of free oscillation would
be 20 seconds, not 0.2 seconds. [MUSIC] This was for small vertical motions. But actually, I can apply my formula to
any kind of slow motion and any shape. Here is a shape of a ship hull. The mode shape, Phi,
can be any kind of solid body motion. For instance, pitching, or rolling. For any of these motions, we only have
to compute the sum over the interface of the quantities involving the modal
shape Phi, and the local normal n. This will give me the stiffness that
opposes rolling, pitching, and so on. This is pure geometry. And this can be done very easily
at the design stage of a hull, by a basic computer program. Moreover, if you imagine
several modes of motion, they may be cross stiffness
terms between all the modes. I will not detail this, but
the fundamentals are here. All you need to do to have
the fluid-induced stiffness is to compute a sum over the interface
of geometrical quantities. And remember,
no fluid mechanics is needed. Well, actually, some is needed, which
is hydrostatics, but we solved it and incorporated the solution into
the formula for the fluid-stiffness. So to summarize we see that the second
term of my fluid induced force is very important in practice and
that it may be very easily computed. But there's also the other
term which I've left aside. In the brackets you see that it depends
under pressure p and the velocity small u. This is going to be a bit more complex
because I will have to solve a problem of linearized fluid dynamics to have it. Here we are. We have been exploring what
the interaction looks like when the reduced velocity is small and
when the motions are small. Just oscillations of a boat, vibrations of an inflatable damn,
or small displacement of a fish. We learned that these motions are opposed
by a fluid induced stiffness force easy to compute. Next you are going to compute
the other component of the force. [MUSIC]