[MUSIC] So we have defined a condition of small
reduced velocity where the problem of the coupled dynamics between
the fluid and the solid could be considered as independent of that of
the proper dynamics of the fluid. Let us see now how this is going
to simplify the equations. First of all, I have to reconsider
my choice of dimensionless numbers. I have been using some numbers
which contain the velocity U0. This is not a very good
idea to keep using them. Because U0, the upstream velocity is just not relevant for the dynamics of our coupled
problem as I just said. Where do I see U0 in the numbers ? In the Reynolds number, in the Froude
number, and in the Cauchy number. This scale of flow velocity U0,
with a speed of viscosity diffusion, with the velocity of gravity waves, and the third one scales the
deformation due to the flow. [MUSIC] In place of U0, it would be much wiser
to use  in the dimensionless numbers or a velocity related to the solid,
like c, the velocity of elastic waves. Or equivalently the velocity L over T-solid. Here are our new numbers defined
using c in place of U0. They are the Stokes number, the Dynamic
Froude number, and the Mass number. They scale now what happens in
the solid with the speed of diffusion, the velocity of gravity wave, and
finally, just the ratio of masses. You remember that the particular choice
of dimensionless parameters is really up to you. As long as you satisfy
the result of the Pi theorem. What I have done here is to take
the Reynolds, Froude, Cauchy numbers and the reduced velocity, combine them with Ur, which is U0 over c in order to
eliminate U0, and obtain a new set. This is much better because now U0
is only in the reduced Ur. Here is the same new set of parameters
using L over T-solid in place of c, when I don't have a  wave
velocity c in the solid. We are now going to use these
numbers in our equations. [MUSIC] I recall here the dimensionless equation that I had, where the dimensionless numbers appeared. The fluid, the solid, the interface, and
the fluid and solid boundary conditions. The only thing I did so far was to assume that I could set
the fluid boundary conditions at U equals 0 because it has a negligible
effect on the dynamics of the fluid. But I have to be consistent in terms of
the variables that I use in my equations. Here, other dimensionless variables that
I used in my dimensionless equations, in the fluid domain, the solid domain and
the time, the same for both. There is a problem here. You can see that I'm using U0 to
scale the velocity and the pressure. But at the same time, I assume that U0
is just not even relevant for my problem. All I have to do is to
make another choice, and replace U0 by a velocity referring to
a solid, for instance, again, the elastic wave velocity  c. I'll then call these
new variables U bar and P bar, and for the sake of clarity,
I will name x tilde x bar. What is that going to
change in my equations, because there are just
changes of fluid variables? Let us look at the fluid equations. In the fluid domain, we have the mass
balance and the momentum balance. By substituting U tilde with U bar,
and P tilde with P bar, respectively, I get very similar equations,
except for the coefficients, which happen to be my new dimensionless numbers, the dynamic Froude and the Stokes number. This is no surprise of course because I
have obtained these new dimensionless numbers also by replacing U0 by c. At the interface we can do
the same kind of substitution, and similarly we have the Mass and
Stokes number that appear. To summarize,
here are our new dimensionless equations. Things are simpler now because all
the fluid dynamics is governed by the interaction with a solid. [MUSIC] Can we solve these equations
in a general case? Not yet. We have to simplify them again by
using stronger and stronger assumptions. At this point we have just assumed that
the fluid moves very slowly in comparison with the solid. In other terms, the oscillation
of this boat when I get on board are not going to depend on
the velocity of the river flow. What can we do next to simplify the gain? Well, certainly the case
of small motion of a solid, just vibrations, is simpler to solve and
very important in practice. Let us go in that direction and
see what we can do. [MUSIC]