[MUSIC] The computation of added stiffness is
easy because it only depends on some integrals over the interface. To compute the added mass we
have to go a bit further. The added mass m A was defined
as the inertia coefficient, when we obtained
the  force acting on the solid. It is made of the mass number, M, and of the sum of an interface
of quantities that we know. Normal n,
mode shape of the solid motion phi, and a quantity that we have to compute,
the pressure shape, phi p. What is phi p? It was related to the velocity shape Phi u through phi u equals minus grad of phi p,
and phi u was the solution of
div of phi u equals zero, and phi u n equals phi n,
at the interface. By taking the divergence
of this momentum equation, we have div of grad of phi_p equals zero. So, we just have to find the field phi p, that satisfies Laplace equation,
delta of phi p. equals zero,
with a boundary condition at interface. Once we have phi p, we will obtain the added mass
ma by a simple sum of the interface. [MUSIC] So, to summarize, for
a given problem of  fluid solid interaction, all we have to do is to solve a Laplace
equation over the fluid domain, with a classical boundary condition
at the interface to match with the shape of the motion of the solid. Solving a Laplace equation is very simple,
using numerical methods, for instance. It does not require advanced
computing techniques. And remember,
we just have to solve it once. This is much, much simpler than CFD. But the Laplace equation is so
simple and so common in physics that there
are many exact solutions. Let us use some of these
solutions to see what happens. Imagine the case of a cylinder, oscillating horizontally
in an infinite fluid. On the interface,
Phi  is the unit  horizontal vector, and so Phi n equals cos theta. I'm using here the polar coordinates r and
theta. The solution of the Laplace equation
with this condition is easy. And we have Phi p=1/r(cos theta). Here is what the pressure
field looks like. The corresponding velocity
field, minus grad of  Phi p, is associated with a unit displacement
of the cylinder as shown here. As you can see, the fluid turns
around the cylinder as it moves. Here is an animated motion
based on this solution. It is much amplified of course, so that
we can see what happens, but remember, that our theory is only valid for
small oscillations. Now, remember that we need all
these to have the added mass. All we have to do now is integrate over
the interface, the quantity phi p, n phi. Because the  dimensionless radius of
the cylinder is one, we obtain mA, the added mass equals M,
the mass number, times pi. What does it mean? Let us go back to
the dimensional quantities. The masses have been scaled
by the mass of the solid. So, the dimensionless mass,
mA, is the ratio of the true added mass large MA,
over the mass of the solid, M solid. We are talking here of a 2D problem, so of
course, these are masses per unique length. On the other hand, the mass number
M is the ratio of Rho R square over the mass of the solid. Here R  is the radius  of the cylinder. By combining  these,
we get the dimensional added mass. large MA equal to Rho pi r square. Now, this is very interesting, because we have an added mass here,
that is equal to the mass of the  displaced water,
just as in Archimedes' principle. This result has a very important
particular application in the field of ocean engineering. If you're interested in the vibrations
of a cable or pipe underwater, You know now that the coupling with the
water is going to bring an adding mass. And you know that the adding mass
is going to be something like the mass of displaced water. Very often, underwater systems
are designed to be neutrally buoyant to avoid forces upward or downward. To be naturally buoyant,
the mass per unit length of the pipe or cable must be similar to
the mass of displaced water, so that gravity is compensated
by Archimedes force. So both M solid and M A are equal
to the mass of displaced water. This means that the apparent
mass of the pipe, the sum of the two is twice
the mass of the pipe itself. This is the basis for rule of thumb
used in ocean engineering that says that the interaction with water
typically doubles all the masses. No need for CFD or
even to solve the Laplace  equation again. All fluid solid interaction reduces
here to doubling the masses. So, we found theh the added mass of
a cylinder in an infinite fluid, was that of the displaced fluid. Is that a general rule? No, not at all, unfortunately. For instance, imagine a cylinder in
a confined, circular, fluid domain. Let delta be the dimensionless radius of the fluid domain. We can solve here the Laplace problem
to have  phi p with  now the condition that radial velocity is zero
at the radius of delta. We can get phi p in close form, and
eventually by integrating as before, we have added mass here. The result is a bit surprising. First, the added mass is
not the displaced mass. Second, it is higher than the displaced
fluid mass, although there is less fluid. And the more confined the fluid is,
the larger the added mass. You can see that when the gap closes,
delta approaches one, and then the added mass goes to infinity. For instance, here are two geometries
with increased confinement. Delta equals 2 and then delta equals 1.1. And here are the added masses
using the formula of both. This is very strange. the less fluid there is the higher the fluid added mass is. Let us try and explain this. [MUSIC] To try and understand, we should have a look at the kinetic
energy of the fluid as the cylinder moves. The  dimensionless kinetic energy, K C, is the sum of 1/2 of M u
square over the fluid domain. Because the velocity u has the particular
form of q dot times phi u, we can take the q dot out of integral,
because it is independent of space. And because phi u is related
to phi p everywhere, and because phi p is related to phi at
interface, we can work on integrals, and it can be shown that the sum over the whole domain of  phi u square, is equal to the sum over the 
 interface of phi, p, n, phi. And this is exactly our added mass. So, the key result is that,
the added mass, is the mass that the allows expressing
the kinetic energy of the fluid, using the velocity of the solid. Now, we understand why the added mass for a confined cylinder is larger than for
a non-confined one. Look at the fluid motion
in the confined case. The fluid velocities are much higher. And if the fluid velocities are much
higher, even on a small domain, the total fluid kinetic energy is higher, and so, the added mass is higher. So it is difficult to move a cylinder in
a confined field space, not because of viscosity, but because it is difficult to
accelerate the fluid around the cylinder. This is fluid inertia. Fluid added mass effect. [MUSIC] The same idea  can help you understand
that added mass is a directional mass. The solid can have a different added mass,
depending on the direction it is moving. For instance, here. An ellipse with a  ratio epsilon between the two axis. The added mass can be derived exactly. In the motion, transverse to the main
axis, it is the same as a cylinder M pi. In a motion along the axis,
it is M pi time epsilon square. Much smaller.
The added mass there is smaller, because this motion does
not move much fluid. So the  fluid kinetic energy is small,
and so is the added mass. The added mass in the vertical motion, is much larger than in
the horizontal direction. Added mass is a very important
concept in engineering. It is the simplest model of the effects
of a  fluid on a moving solid. And of course, the higher the  fluid density, the higher the added mass. So in designing submerged systems or a floating systems in interaction with
water, you have to take this into account, as it is the main effect of the fluid on the dynamics of the solid. But added mass may also
be important in air. Why? Consider a  lock of hair. Its weight may be of a few grams. And the added mass, of a few grams also. This means that in computer
graphics applied to video games or animated films, you have to take into
account the added mass of air, on hairs. Let us summarize. The added mass effect is a major
effect in fluid solid interactions. It is remarkable,
that the result of all the complex flow caused by the motion of the solid is so
simple. Of course, this is because we have
made some very strong assumptions. Low reduced velocity, small amplitude,
negligible effects of viscosity. In the next step, you will learn how to take into
account the effects of viscosity. [MUSIC]