[MUSIC] So, let us explore together a bit further
the domain of small reduced velocities. As you know, this corresponds to cases where I can
neglect the proper free velocity. We are still going to assume that the
displacements of the solid are small, so that I can use all the much
simpler linearized equations. Let us recall them. Here they are, on the fluid side,
on the solid side, and at the interface. You recognize in the fluid force the part that is due to the motion of
the solid in a pressure gradient. That gave us the fluid
induced stiffness terms. Then, the other part corresponds
to the effect of the pressure and velocity in the fluid caused
by the motion of the solid. This is the feedback term. Let us focus on this feedback term. In the limit of very high Stokes number, the effect of the fluid
viscosity could be neglected. And we showed that the fluid loading
was just an added mass effect. Let us go now at the other limit,
a very small stokes number, for instance, vibrations inside a bearing. There, the size of the fluid
domain is small, say ten microns. The viscosity of oil is
a thousand  times more than water. For vibrations at a frequency of ten hertz
you would have a Stokes number of 10^-6 This is  very small, and you can imagine that the Stokes number may
be even smaller when the size is smaller, the viscosity is larger,
and the motion is slower. A very small Stokes number means that
the viscous term in the momentum balance equation dominates over
the acceleration term. We can neglect the du over dt. We have to rescale the pressure by
using p times Stokes in place of p, otherwise your problem is ill-posed. This results in a simplified
momentum balanced equation, zero equals minus gradient  of p plus delta u. The mass balance is unchanged,
div of u equals 0. Consistently, at interface, we keep the full kinematic condition,
u equals q dot Phi. And the dynamic condition, where I have again removed
the stiffness terms, contains the sum over the interface of the loading by
pressure plus the loading by viscosity. Can we solve this in general case? Certainly. [MUSIC] In fact, we can use exactly
the same technique done for the limit of very high Stokes number. At the interface, the fluid velocity
takes the form of a function of time, q dot, times a function of space, Phi. This comes from the single mode
description of the motion of the solid. We may then look for fluid velocity
that would have the same form, not only on the interface but
everywhere in the fluid. Of course,
the time dependence  would be q dot, the space dependence is unknown,
and we note it phi u. In the same idea,
because pressure is now proportional to the velocity u, let us look also for
pressure field p of x and t as q dot times a function of space,
say phi p of x. These are not the same phi u and phi p as
for the added mass case, of course. Then, the mass balance implies that
div of phi u is equal to zero. And in the momentum balance,
the q dots cancel out, and we obtain minus grad of phi p,
plus delta of phi u, equals 0. At the interface, the kinematic
condition is simply phi u equals phi. Let us look at the dynamic condition. Here is the fluid loading
we are looking for. Using our new single mode
description of the pressure and velocity, it takes the form of minus
q dot times a ratio of M over Stokes, times the sum over  the whole
interface of terms involving Phi, Phi p, Phi u, and a normal n. All these are time independent, so the quantity inside
the bracket is just a constant. This means that the force induced by
the fluid on the solid is a damping force, proportional to the velocity of the solid,
q dot. The coefficient, CA, is the added damping. And again, the fluid loading
on the solid at the time t only depends on the velocity
at the same time. This is an instantaneous feedback. We just found for
the limit of a very small Stokes number, a situation somewhat parallel to
the limit of very large Stokes numbers. For large Stokes numbers, the effect of viscosity in dynamics
of the fluid can be neglected. The motion of the fluid is not influenced
by viscous diffusion, which is very slow. This results in an instantaneous
intertial response of the fluid, and a consequence an instantaneous
added mass effect. Conversely, for small Stokes numbers,
the effect of the viscosity is dominant. The motion of the fluid is now
governed by viscous  diffusion which is very fast. This results in an instantaneous
viscous response of the fluid, and as a consequence,
an instantaneous added damping effect. In the first case, to compute the added mass, we just had
to solve a Laplace problem on Phi p. In the second case, it is a Stokes
problem, a bit more complicated but still it only has to be solved once. What are the effect of
dimensionless numbers? The added mass and  the  added damping
are both proportional to the mass number. The added damping decreases
with the Stokes number. If we consider now the dimensional
quantities, you remember that we had an added mass that was proportional
to the fluid density Rho. Now the added damping is proportional
to the fluid viscosity Mu, as you would expect. Using these very simple solutions for
the fluid force acting on a solid, we know how the dynamics of
the solid is going to be affected. At high Stokes number, as I said before, coupling with a fluid is just
an increase of the mass. The oscillator equation for q is now (1 + m A) q double dot + q = 0. The frequency of the free oscillation
would be lower in the presence of fluid. At low Stokes number, we now have
a damped oscillator equation for q. Any free oscillation will  be damped. The added damping caused by the viscous
effects in the fluid is not a surprise. In practice, it is only significant
when the Stokes number is quite small. This means very small systems or
very viscous fluid, for instance. In industrial application this
is the dominant damping for systems with a very confined fluid domain,
such as fluid bearings for instance. You also find this effect in biomechanics
when considering very small systems. And it is also important when
dealing with a very viscous fluid, such as those found in food processing. Yes, there are people doing research
on fluid-solid interactions in cheese making at the industrial level. Of course, the next question is what happens when the Stokes
number is neither large nor small. Are we going to have added
mass plus added damping? Next you will learn how
to address this case. [MUSIC]