[MUSIC] We are now in the approximation of
a very large reduced velocity where the dynamics of the solid is so slow that we may neglect the velocity
of the interface in the fluid  dynamics. The fluid dynamics is fast, and
the solid dynamics is slow, comparatively. Under this approximation, can we say
anything in general on the effect of the fluid loading on
the dynamics of the solids? [MUSIC] If we use the simplest framework for
the dynamics of the solid, that of a single mode approximation, what
will be the form of the fluid loading and what would be the consequences
on the dynamics of the solid? In the single mode approximation
the position of the interface depends on the single parameter q. So considering that interface is fixed
at the position defined by q, we have in the fluid domain a steady-state problem
with a boundary condition dependent on q. The pressure and the velocity in
the fluid will depend on that value q, and so will the fluid loading
projected on the model F sub FS. We may state that the fluid
loading at a given time will depend on the position of
the interface at that same time. [MUSIC] The projected fluid loading is actually
proportional to the Cauchy number Cy as noted before. So I write the force as the Cauchy
number times the function of the other parameters such as the Reynolds
number and my interface displacement, q. For small motion, D much smaller than 1, we may now expand the fluid loading as
a function of the small parameter, D. The first term is the permanent loading corresponding to the reference
position of q equals zero. The next term is D times the fluctuation
of the fluid loading force, small F sub FS. This is the flow induced force resulting
from the motion of the interface. It is proportional to
the modal displacement on q. This is a flow induced stiffness
force as a spring force. [MUSIC] So from the point of view
of the dynamics of a solid, the coupling to the flow is identical
to the coupling with the spring. But what is the stiffness
kF of this spring? We have kF equals Cauchy times DF over Dq. First, we may note that it may
be positive as well as negative. Its sign just depends on the way the flow reacts to the displacement of the
boundary, as will be shown in examples. Moreover, the magnitude of the stiffness
depends on the flow velocity being proportional to the Cauchy number. Remember that the Cauchy
varies as u squared. So we have a flow induced
stiffness with a sign and a magnitude that depends
totally on the fluid dynamics. [MUSIC] What is the consequence of
such a flow-induced stiffness on the dynamics of our solid? The dynamics of the mode is governed by
an oscillator equation that we obtained in dimensionless form. If we are interested in the dynamics of the
solid, we should now change the reference time and use the dimensionless
time t bar based on t fluid. Thus we have a simple oscillator
equation for the quantity q of t. In the presence of flow, the oscillator
equation is modified by the right hand side force f sub FS,
which we just derived. As this force is proportional
to the model displacement q, we can incorporate it in
the oscillator equation. So in the presence of flow we have
a new oscillator with a total stiffness that varies
with the flow velocity. Depending on the sign of
the fluid induced stiffness, the total stiffness may decrease
as the flow velocity is increased. At some stage, all stiffness is lost. At 0 stiffness, instability occurs
because the frequency becomes imaginary. This instability is often referred to
as the static instability in the sense that it only involves displacements term,
not inertia or velocity. It is also called buckling or divergence. Now what happens in practice? If we consider the response
to a perturbation, here's what will happen
in this approximation. At 0 flow velocity the solid oscillates. For velocity below
the instability threshold, the perturbation also results in an
oscillation, but the frequency is smaller. Above the threshold, any perturbation
will be exponentially amplified in time. Let us summarize. Here's what the dynamics
of the oscillator and the flow is going to be in the case where
the flow induced stiffness is negative. At very small Cauchy number,
the flow is unable to affect system and the dimensionless frequency of free
oscillation is going to be 1, as expected. As the flow velocity is increased, the frequency decreases down to
the point of static instability. [MUSIC] We can illustrate this on the very
simple case of an airfoil, which may deform in
torsion around an axis. Let theta be the angle of torsion
with a zero reference position. Without flow, the wing section angle would
follow an oscillator equation where J is the moment of inertia and
C is the torsion stiffness. Using a time based on Tsolid,
the period of the oscillator, the equation becomes,
the elementary oscillator equation. Let us consider now a flow
such that our assumption of quasi-static aeroelasticity applies. This means that the reduced
velocity is high enough. Here, the reduced velocity UR reads as
the ratio between the time of oscillation, Tsolid, and
a fluid convection time, L over U. The displacement number would be here
the magnitude of the displacement over the size of the wing section, which means
D equals theta naught L over L, which is theta naught, where theta naught
is the angle of the motion of interest. The condition for the use of an approximation is
that UR is much larger than D. If we consider oscillations
of the order of degrees, say, theta naught equals pi over 100,
on a typical small aircraft wing, we have UR on the order of 100,
which is much larger than pi over 100. Under this approximation we may use as model
of the fluid force acting on the airfoil, exactly the same model as
if the airfoil was fixed with a time independent
angle of torsion theta. This is the well known configuration of
a fixed airfoil with an angle of attack. For small enough angles, before stall, the flow around the airfoil results mainly in a lift force acting
about at the quarter chord. The force is proportional to U squared and
to CL, the lift coefficient, which depends
on the angle of attack, theta. Let x be the distance between
the point where lift applies and the axis of rotation of the airfoil. Now, dimensionless equations. We may define a Cauchy number, Cy, as the ratio between the fluid
loading and the flexibility in torsion. The moment exerted by this force
acts on the rotation of the wing at right hand side term in the oscillator equation. Let us now expand the r.h.s for
small angles and obtain a stiffness term related to the
derivative of the lift coefficient with respect to the angle of attack. There is a lot of data on the dependence
of the lift coefficient with the angle of attack, depending on
the shape of the airfoil. For instance, for
a symmetric NACA 0012 section, here is a schematic view of the curve. All we need here is
the slope dCl over d theta. It is typically equal to 2 pi
in the thin airfoil theory. We may write now the equation
that governs the torsion angle, taking into account
the flow induced stiffness. We see that when x is positive, for
instance for a rotation axis at the mid chord, the stiffness destabilizes
the torsion dynamics. The total stiffness vanishes
at a critical Cauchy number, which we can simply compute. Now that we have
the critical Cauchy number, we can go back to dimensional quantities. The critical velocity is found to depend
simply on the rotation stiffness, C, on the chord of the wing, L, and on the position of the axis
of rotation of the wing, x. Here is an illustration of the response
of the wing to an initial pertubation. For velocity below the critical value,
the airfoil  oscillates. Above the critical velocity,
the amplitude increases exponentially. [MUSIC] Actually, these instabilities
were a problem for early planes made of
rather soft materials. For more recent planes, materials are
stiffer and more importantly the point of the axis of rotation may be moved upward,
which totally suppresses instability. This instability was observed here, on a plane without engines,
a very special case. You may also find some of
these instabilities in torsion in very flexible foot bridges. To summarize, we have shown that
the very simple approximation on the reduced velocity could
be used to predict some kinds of interactions between a fast flow and
a solid. And some of these interactions could lead
to instabilities of the buckling type. This is very important in practice and remember that predictions
of the critical velocities only require standard data on
fluid loading on structures. [MUSIC]