[MUSIC] Well, we have obtained a model of
the flow-induced damping in a pipe using a single mode approximation,
but we could not predict this famous fluid-conveying pipe instability or
garden hose instability. The next step is to improve the model by enriching the description
of the dynamics of the pipe. Let us use a two modes approximation. [MUSIC] To keep the equation simple and
without changing the physics, we are going to work with
the fluid-conveying bi-pendulum. Without fluid the dynamics of the single pendulum was governed by theta
double dot + theta = 0. Let us consider a bi-pendulum by
combining two simple pendulums. Its deformation is now defined
by two angles, theta and phi. Without fluid, and using the same
dimension parameters, the dynamics is governed by two equations that couple
the evolutions in time of theta and phi. You can obtain these two equations by any
standard methods of rigid body dynamics. In these two equations, I have two
degrees of freedom, theta and phi. But their evolutions are coupled. This is not exactly a two modes
approximation as I've used before. Let us build this. I can look for the two modes of this
coupled system, here's what I get. The first mode has a frequency
of square root of 2- 1. The motion is quite pendular, with the two
masses moving in the same direction. The second mode has a higher frequency and the mode shape shows the two masses
moving in opposite direction. First mode in phase,
second mode out of phase. I can write the state of my
bi-pendulum theta phi using a combination of these two modes
with the modal variables q1 and q2 as I have done often before. Now, q1 and q2 satisfy simple uncoupled modal oscillator equations. Now, that we have the model for
the dynamics of the solid, let us   include the interaction with the fluid. For the fluid conveying single pendulum, we could handle the case of an 
arbitrary reduced velocity. It is a bit heavy to handle for the
bi-pendulum, although it can be done too. But what we're looking for is the simplest model of  the instability that
occurs when we increase the flow velocity. You remember that for
other systems, such as an air foil, the approximation of
quasistatic aeroelasticiy allowed to predict dynamic instabilities using
a two modes approximation. Let us try this. [MUSIC] Here is the fluid-conveying bi-pendulum
in a deformation state frozen in time. What is the fluid loading  on the solid in this geometry
with a reduced velocity UR? This is a classical
problem of fluid mechanics. Flow in a pipe with an elbow. Using the fluid momentum balance,
the magnitude of the force exerted by the flow
on an elbow is rho SU squared (theta- phi) in dimensional form,
for small angles. I can define the Cauchy number based
on the stiffness of the springs and my dimensionless force reads simply
Cauchy times theta minus phi. What is the effect of this force
on the dynamics of the pipe? All I have to do is to project
the same force on my two modes.  Because f depends on theta and
phi, it depends on q1 and q2. I end up with my equations in q1 and q2, including new terms,
depending on the Cauchy number. Here they are. On the left hand side, I have the modal
oscillator terms for q1 and q2. On the right hand side, all the terms are proportional to
the Cauchy number as expected. And importantly, there are terms in q1 and
q2 in both equations. I can put on the left hand side 
the stiffness  terms of each equations, and I get something very similar
to cases we have seen before. On mode one, I have a stiffness  that's going
to increase with the Cauchy number. Conversely, on mode two the stiffness
is going to decrease, and I have a coupling between the two
modes that is not symmetric at all. This is going to give me an instability
with a merging of the two frequencies and non symmetry coupling. Let us see that. I can compute the modes of the system
as a function of the Cauchy number. At zero flow velocity,
two modes with frequencies, omega one and omega two as before. As the flow velocity is increased
the frequencies come closer and closer. When they meet the non symmetric
couplings give two modes, one stable and one unstable. Here is what the unstable mode looks like. It is a combination of
the two initial modes. It has a same look as the experimental
motion after instability. Why is it unstable? It is unstable because over one cycle,
the force exerted by the flow on the elbow brings a positive
work as we can see here. Although the configuration
is quite different this is exactly the same mechanism as
in coupled mode  flutter of an air foil. Actually in many other
instabilities of this type. The dynamics combining two
modes allows the fluid force to bring a positive work in a cycle. [MUSIC] Much more can be done on the fluid
conveying pipe problem and has been done. Solving for all reduced
velocities using beam modes instead of mass spring pendulum, changing the
boundary conditions and many other things. This serves as a toy model for a very large set of problems
of fluid solid interactions. There are other flow induced
instabilities that are somehow related to the fluid conveying pipe instability. For instance flag flapping in
some regimes, the outer flow is along the flexible system as in
the pipe and the unstable mode is similar. Some of the early models are based
almost on the same equations. Snoring is also a case of flutter with
flow along a flexible system. To model it you have to take into
account the flexibility of the palate and the flow on both sides. Let us summarize the key findings here. First by using a single mode
approximation we could obtain models for various ranges of reduced velocity,
small, high, and intermediate. And because the system is so simple, we could have the solution for
all reduced velocities. This showed that the various effects
of the couplings somehow added up. But that only accounted for part of the
dynamics observed in fluid conveying pipes. Increase of damping, but
not the instability. Second, by enriching the dynamic of the
solid, you could predict the instability. This is in fact the basis
of building models. Using the simplest approximation for
the dynamics and for the interaction, articulating the resulting models, and
if necessary, using more elaborate models. Are there some fluid interactions problems that cannot at all be treated
by what we done up to now? Yes, there are and many. Next we shall address one of them
of great particular importance, vortex induced vibrations. [MUSIC]